 Asturias (/æˈstʊəriəs, ə-/,[6][7] Spanish: [asˈtuɾjas]), Asturian: Asturies [asˈtuɾjes; -ɾjɪs])
 officially the Principality of Asturias, (Spanish: Principado de Asturias; Asturian:
 Principáu d'Asturies; Galician–Asturian: Principao d'Asturias) is an autonomous
 community in northwest Spain.
 It is coextensive with the province of Asturias and contains some of the territory that was
 part of the larger Kingdom of Asturias in the Middle Ages. Divided into eight comarcas
 (counties), the autonomous community of Asturias is bordered by Cantabria to the east, by
 León (Castile and León) to the south, by Lugo (Galicia) to the west, and by the Cantabrian
 sea to the north.
 Asturias is situated in a mountainous setting with vast greenery and lush vegetation,
 making it part of Green Spain. The region has a maritime climate. It receives plenty of
 annual rainfall and little sunshine by Spanish standards and has very moderated seasons,
 most often averaging in the lower 20s celsius. Heatwaves are rare due to mountains
 blocking southerly winds. Winters are very mild for the latitude, especially near sea level.
 The most important cities are the communal capital, Oviedo, the seaport and largest city
 Gijón, and the industrial town of Avilés. Other municipalities in Asturias include Cangas de
 Onís, Cangas del Narcea, Gozón, Grado, Langreo, Llanera, Laviana, Lena, Llanes, Mieres,
 Siero, Valdés, Vegadeo and Villaviciosa (see also List of municipalities and comarcas in
 Asturias).
 Asturias was inhabited first by Homo erectus, then by
 Neanderthals. Since the Lower Paleolithic era, and during the
 Upper Paleolithic, Asturias was characterized by cave
 paintings in the eastern part of the area. In the Mesolithic
 period, a native culture developed, that of the Asturiense, and
 later, with the introduction of the Bronze Age, megaliths and
 tumuli were constructed. In the Iron Age, the territory came
 under the cultural influence of the Celts; the local Celtic
 peoples, known as the Astures, were composed of tribes such
 as the Luggones, the Pesicos, and others, who populated the
 entire area with castros (fortified hill-towns). Today the Astur
 Celtic influence persists in place names, such as those of rivers
 and mountains.
 With the conquest of Asturias by the Romans under Augustus
 (29–19 BC), the region entered into recorded history. The
 Astures were subdued by the Romans, but were never fully
 conquered. After several centuries without foreign presence,
 they enjoyed a brief revival during the Germanic invasions of
 the late 4th century AD, resisting Suebi and Visigoth raids
 throughout the 5th century AD, ending with the Moorish
 invasion of Spain. However, as it had been for the Romans and
 Visigoths, the Moors did not find mountainous territory easy
 to conquer, and the lands along Spain's northern coast never
 became part of Islamic Spain. With the beginning of the
 Moorish conquest in the 8th century, this region became a
 refuge for Christian nobles, and in 722, a de facto independent
 kingdom was established, the Regnum Asturorum, which was to become the cradle of the
 incipient Reconquista (Reconquest).
 In the 10th century, the Kingdom of Asturias gave way to the Kingdom of León, and during
 the Middle Ages the geographic isolation of the territory made historical references scarce.
 Through the rebellion of Prince Henry (the later Henry II of Castile) in the 14th century,
 the Principality of Asturias was established. The most famous proponents of independence
 were Gonzalo Peláez and Queen Urraca, who, while achieving significant victories, were
 ultimately defeated by Castilian troops. After its integration into the Kingdom of Spain,